---
layout: post
title:  "Resume"
date:   2020-05-06 18:14:41 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

### **Jeffrey Smart, Ph.D.**

<table style="border: 0px;">
<tr>

<td><a href = "mailto: Jeffrey.Smart@me.com">Jeffrey.Smart@me.com</a></td>
<td style="text-align: center;"><a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/jrsmart/">linkedin.com/in/jrsmart</a></td>
<td style="text-align: right;"><a href="tel:8185190966">(818) 519-0966</a></td>

</tr>
</table>

Goal: Seeking data analyst / data engineering role using Python and
financial analytics skills.

Skills: Python, SQL, R, financial mathematics and risk management, project management, Excel.

**Bank of Hope** -- Los Angeles, CA <span style="float:right;">May 2019 to May 2020</span>

First Vice President, Operational Risk Management and Loan Operations
Departments

-   Validated valuations for a large syndicated loan program
    (Python and pandas).

-   Identified data sources, designed and executed data preparation for
    monthly operational dashboard (Python and pandas).

-   Developed Loan Ops' future-state data strategy with IT's Enterprise Data
    Warehouse team.

-   Performed independent assessment of controls and risks for several
    departments. Delivered oral and written presentations to executive
    management.

**HireGenics** -- 100 percent remote <span style="float:right;">January 2017 to March 2019</span>

Independent Contractor -- AIG's Insurance Company Asset/Liability
Modeling Department

-   Automated validation of interest rate and equity
    scenarios for capital modeling; cut delivery time from 4 weeks to 1
    day (Python and numpy).

-   Wrote proof-of-concept code and served as project manager for a market data automation project. 
    Followed Agile methodology, using Jira and Confluence. 
    Retired legacy application.

-   Developed and executed test plans to support
    capital-modeling analytics. Led walk-throughs to obtain deployment
    approval (SQL and Python).

**AIG** -- Woodland Hills, CA <span style="float:right;">August 2009 to March 2016</span>

Director (2009 -- 14) and Managing Director (2014 -- 16), Market
Risk Management Department

-   Model Implementation: Implemented and tested
    enhancements to models used for valuation and hedging of \$35
    billion book of variable annuities.

-   Operations: Scheduled and managed daily and monthly batch processes
    along with large-scale R&D analytics.

-   Controls: Designed and implemented process controls; conducted
    reviews with SOX, Internal Audit and regulators.

-   Cloud Computing: Created and led cloud-computing strategy; grew from
    200 internal cores to 8,000 cores on external cloud. Supported
    growth from \$8 billion to \$35 billion assets under management.

-   Process Improvements: Executed multiple process improvement
    projects; e.g., cut month-end batch cycle from 4 weeks to 4 days.

-   Leadership: Hired and led team of 6 professionals.

**AIG** -- New York, NY <span style="float:right;">March 1997 to August 2009</span>

Various positions, Enterprise Risk Management Department

-   Head of ERM Data Services: acquire and consolidate corporate data
    for corporate risk officers; led team of 15 professionals.

-   Performed quarterly value at risk analysis on \$500 billion balance
    sheet for public disclosure.

-   Led creation and implementation of platform to track \$50 billion
    derivatives portfolio; trained operating company teams in US and
    southeast Asia.

-   Derivatives Committee Co-Chair: Committee was responsible for review
    and approval of all derivative programs globally.

**TMG Financial Projects** -- Greenwich, CT <span style="float:right;">February 1996 to March 1997</span>

Financial Engineer

-   Implemented economic capital model for book of long-dated
    interest-rate and cross-currency derivatives. Included various
    credit enhancements.

**Presentations**

HPC on Wall Street (panelist) <span style="float:right;">New York, NY -- September 2016</span>

HPC on Wall Street (panelist) <span style="float:right;">New York, NY -- April 2016</span>

Amazon (speaker at invitation-only briefing) <span style="float:right;">New York, NY -- April 2016</span>

Cycle Computing (speaker at invitation-only briefing) <span style="float:right;">New York, NY -- April 2016</span>

High-Performance Computing User Forum (invited speaker) <span style="float:right;">Tuscon, AZ -- April 2016</span>

**Education**

M.S., Mathematics, Claremont Graduate University <span style="float:right;">2017</span>

Ph.D., Chemical Engineering, University of Notre Dame <span style="float:right;">1992</span>

M.S., Chemical Engineering, University of Notre Dame <span style="float:right;">1988</span>

B.S., Chemical Engineering, West Virginia University <span style="float:right;">1986</span>




